---
layout: default
title: Python
---

h1. Python

<div id="charpter">
h3. Contents
* "IDE & Editor":#ide_editor
* "Web Framework":#web_framework
* "Web Apps":#web_apps
* "Packages & Utility Class":#packages
* "Other":#other
* "References":#references
</div>

h3(#ide_editor). IDE & Editor
* "PyCharm":http://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/ - 来自JetBrains的强大的IDE
* "Python Tools for Visual Studio":http://pytools.codeplex.com/
* "Eclipse":http://www.eclipse.org/ + "pydev":http://pydev.org/
* "Aptana":http://aptana.com
* "VIM":/pages/software/vim.html
* "Emacs":http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/
* "Sublime Text 2":/pages/software/editor_ide.html#sublime_text - 强大的代码编辑器，堪比MacOS下的textmate

h3(#web_framework). Web Framework
* "bobo":http://bobo.digicool.com/
* "Bottle":http://bottlepy.org - 单文件小巧web framework
* "CheerPy":http://www.cherrypy.org/
* "circuits":https://bitbucket.org/prologic/circuits/
* "Django":http://www.djangoproject.com/
** "dajaxice":http://www.dajaxproject.com/ - easy to use ajax library for django
** "imagekit":https://github.com/jdriscoll/django-imagekit/ - Automated image processing for Django models
* "Flask":http://www.pocoo.org/projects/flask/ - a micro web framework
* "Tenjin":http://www.kuwata-lab.com/tenjin/
* "Tornado":http://www.tornadoweb.org/
** "Tornado中文手册":http://www.tornadoweb.cn/
** "Github上一些不错的Tornado资源":https://github.com/facebook/tornado/wiki/Links
* "Pylons":http://pylonshq.com/
* "pysi":https://bitbucket.org/imbolc/pysi
* "TurboGears":http://turbogears.org/
* "Web.py":http://webpy.org/
* "Web2py":http://web2py.com/
* "wheezy.web":https://bitbucket.org/akorn/wheezy.web

h3(#web_apps). Web Apps
* *CMS*
** "Plone":http://plone.org/
** "Feincms":http://www.feincms.org/ - 开源CMS系统
** "Mezzanine":http://mezzanine.jupo.org/ - 基于Django的CMS

* *BBS*
** "DjangoBB":https://bitbucket.org/slav0nic/djangobb
** "pyBB":https://bitbucket.org/zeus/pybb
** "Project Babel 2":https://github.com/livid/v2ex - 托管在google app engine上的社区系统
** "june":https://github.com/lepture/june - 简约的论坛程序
** "lusernews":https://github.com/dengzhp/lusernews - 为似于Hacknews的社交新闻系统
** "post_bar":https://github.com/Rabbit52/post_bar - 使用 web.py 实现的仿 v2ex 社区网站

* *Blog*
** "DPress":https://github.com/vicalloy/DPress - 基于Django的一个简单博客程序
** "DevilNotes":https://github.com/Evlos/DevilNotes - 基于 Tornado, Pygments, PyRSS2Gen, Misaka, SQLAchemy 的开源博客程序

* *Other*
** "Vulpix":https://github.com/fanzeyi/Vulpix - "Online Judge System":http://oj.fanhe.org/
** "42qu.cc":https://bitbucket.org/zuroc/42qu-notepad - 42qu.cc 源码，开源记事本程序
** "Tornado Gists":https://github.com/peterbe/tornado_gists
** "PoweredSites":https://bitbucket.org/felinx/poweredsites

* *WIKI*
** "MoinMoinWiki":http://moinmo.in/ ("sources":https://bitbucket.org/thomaswaldmann/moin-2.0) - 用Flask写的的开源wiki系统

h3(#packages). Packages & Utility Class
* *Network*
** "lxml":http://lxml.de/ - 一款高性能Python XML库，支持XPath、XSLT，可对XML和HTML执行解析、序列化和转换等
** "requests":http://python-requests.org/ - Requests is an ISC Licensed HTTP library, written in Python, for human beings.
** "Logmon":https://github.com/maxcountryman/logmon - Logmon is a realtime log reader written with Flask and Juggernaut.
** "Gevent":http://www.gevent.org/ - 非常好的用来写 Socket Server 的框架
** "Twisted":http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/ - 同上

* *Templating Engine*
** "Jinja2":http://www.pocoo.org/projects/jinja2/ - Jinja2 is a popular text templating engine for Python

* *ORM*
** "autumn":https://github.com/luckythetourist/autumn - a Python ORM
** "SQLAlchemy":http://www.sqlalchemy.org/
** "Storm":https://storm.canonical.com/
** "SQLObject":http://www.sqlobject.org/
** "peewee":https://github.com/coleifer/peewee

* *Database*
** "UltraMySQL":https://github.com/esnme/ultramysql - 用C/C++写成，号称超越 Python MySQL 的驱动
** "MySQLdb":http://sourceforge.net/projects/mysql-python/
** "redis-py":http://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py

* *Other*
** "odict":http://dev.pocoo.org/hg/sandbox/raw-file/tip/odict.py - 可以保证元素顺序的Dict
** "WTForms":http://wtforms.simplecodes.com/ - WTForms is a forms validation and rendering library for python web development.
** "Unofficial Windows Binaries for Python Extension Packages":http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/
** "psutil":http://code.google.com/p/psutil/ - 用来查看系统的各种状态
** "APScheduler":http://packages.python.org/APScheduler/ - APScheduler is a light but powerful in-process task scheduler that lets you schedule functions (or any other python callables) to be executed at times of your choosing.
** "Arrow":https://github.com/crsmithdev/arrow - 时间和日期的处理库
** "simplejson":http://pypi.python.org/pypi/simplejson
** "imaging(PIL)":http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/

h3(#other). Other
* "bpython":http://bpython-interpreter.org/ - 支持语法高亮的控制台
* "APNS Python Wrapper":http://code.google.com/p/apns-python-wrapper/ - Python wrapper for Apple Push Notification Service. 
* "Pocoo":http://www.pocoo.org - The Pocoo Team consists of people from the Python community that are working under one umbrella on various Python libraries and applications.
* "pyres":https://github.com/binarydud/pyres - 用 Python 实现的 Resque 克隆(后台任务处理)
* "Sphinx":http://sphinx.pocoo.org/ - API文档生成
* "Unofficial Windows Binaries for Python Extension Packages":http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/

h3(#references). References
* *Python*
** "《简明 Python 教程 - a byte of python》":http://junnan.org/ebooks/a_byte_of_python/
** "《深入python - dive into python》":http://woodpecker.org.cn/diveintopython/toc/index.html
** "《深入python3 - dive into python3》":http://woodpecker.org.cn/diveintopython3/table-of-contents.html
** "《The Python Tutorial》":http://docs.python.org/tutorial/index.html
** "《Learn Python The Hard Way - 笨办法学Python》中文版":http://readthedocs.org/docs/learn-python-the-hard-way-zh_cn-translation/en/latest/index.html / "bitbucket":https://bitbucket.org/gastlygem/lpthw/wiki/Home
** "用Python做科学计算":http://hyry.dip.jp/pydoc/index.html
** "Learn Python":http://www.learnpython.org/
** "Python for beginners":http://www.pythonforbeginners.com/
* *Django*
** "《The Django Book》":http://djangobook.py3k.cn/2.0/
** "Django 1.3 Docs":http://junnan.org/ebooks/django_docs_1.3/
** "Storm Tutorial 中文版":https://storm_orm_tutorial_cn.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
